- You can find there original repository here: [Windows-Subsystem-For-Linux-Setup-Guide](https://github.com/michaeltreat/Windows-Subsystem-For-Linux-Setup-Guide)
- Here is the markdown file I am editing, [PostgresSQL.md](https://github.com/michaeltreat/Windows-Subsystem-For-Linux-Setup-Guide/blob/master/readmes/installs/PostgreSQL.md)

# Install PostgreSQL using WSL

This doc explains how to install PostgreSQL 10 for Windows WSL

We are installing this through the Ubuntu command line since we want this software to run in the Linux environment. You can check out the PostgreSQL Linux install docs [here](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/ubuntu/).

## Install
1. Open a terminal (the Ubuntu app) and then go to the root of the Ubuntu Subsystem by typing `cd ~ `.
2. Type `sudo nano /etc/apt/sources.list`. This will open a file on Ubuntu using the Nano editor.
3. At the bottom of this file, paste in this line `deb http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt/ xenial-pgdg main`
  - Change the last part of the line above from `xenial-` to whichever version of Ubuntu you are running. For example, `bionic-` for Ubuntu 18.04.X. Or `focal-` for Ubuntu 20.04.
  - You can always check the dists in here: [http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt/dists](http://apt.postgresql.org/pub/repos/apt/dists/)
4. When that's done, press `Ctrl + X` together to close the file, and press `y` when prompted to save your changes, and `enter` to finally close.
5. Next, copy these 2 lines and paste them into your terminal:
```
wget --quiet -O - https://www.postgresql.org/media/keys/ACCC4CF8.asc | sudo apt-key add -
sudo apt-get update
```

[Reference](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Apt)

This will add postgresql-10 to your repositories so you can install the latest version of PostgreSQL. Press `enter` when the last line pops up.

6. After the update is complete, enter in this line `sudo apt-get install postgresql-10` and press `y` when prompted. If the process aborts automatically, you may have to restart your terminal. `postgresql-13` is now the latest.

## Postgres User Setup

postgresql-10 runs under the user `postgres`. We need to give this user a password so that postgres can allow this user to connect to the database.

1. To set the password for postgres, type `sudo passwd postgres`.
2. You will get a prompt to enter in your password. It will not show when you are typing, but it is still registering your key-strokes.
3. Close and reopen the terminal.

## Using psql

After your first install, and each time you restart your machine you will have to also restart the postgres service, or else you will get a `Is the server running?` error. 

1. To start the service, type `sudo service postgresql start`.
2. To conntect to postgres, type `sudo -u postgres psql`. 

You should get a prompt asking for your password. If this doesn't work, then you can try the second option listed below.

1. Switch users to postgres by typing `su - postgres`.
2. Type `psql`.

When this is successful you will see the command line change to look like this `postgres=#`

## Tips

Since typing out `sudo service postgres start` and `sudo -u postgres psql` all the time can be tedious, I would recommend you set up a couple aliases for this. 

1. Open a terminal and type `cd ~`, then type `sudo nano .profile`. This will open your `.profile` which controls what your terminal does and looks like.
2. Add these two lines next to any other aliases that you have:
  - `alias pgstart='sudo service postgresql start'`
  - `alias runpg='sudo -u postgres psql'`
This will allow you to type `pgstart` to start running the psql service, and `runpg` to quickly log into the psql prompt. This is an example of a Quality of Life enhancement, something that makes your life easier and faster as a developer. 

You can change `pgstart` and `runpg` to what ever you want, but just be careful you don't overwrite something that postgres might use.

- If you install postgresql 13, it may need you to do `pg_ctlcluster 13 main start` as the postgres user

# My Notes

1. After following the above instructions, change your directory to the `etc` folder from the root directory,
```
$ cd /etc
```

You will want to find the hosts file that is autogenerated by WSL. If you do not see it in your terminal, you may need to use a command to open it. The terminal I use is Extraterm and I would open the `hosts` file with Visual Studio Code.

```
$ code hosts
```

2. Now you should see the text in `hosts` and it should look something like this,
```
# This file is automatically generated by WSL based on the Windows hosts file:
# %WINDIR%\System32\drivers\etc\hosts. Modifications to this file will be overwritten.
127.0.0.1	localhost
127.0.1.1	your_computer_name.localdomain	computer_name

# The following lines are desirable for IPv6 capable hosts
::1     ip6-localhost ip6-loopback
fe00::0 ip6-localnet
ff00::0 ip6-mcastprefix
ff02::1 ip6-allnodes
ff02::2 ip6-allrouters
```
Take note of the ip address that is attached to localhost. The reason why you must do this is because when you attempt to create a new server in pgAdmin, inputting the host name/address as localhost could lead to some problems, which happened for me.

3. With that in mind, start the service and log into your superuser,

```
$ sudo service postgresql start
$ sudo -u postgres psql
```

When I tried to log into my postgres superuser in pgAdmin, it threw me errors. So just incase, you may as well change or reenter your password again,
```
postgres=# \password postgres
```
4. By now, you should also had searched up `pgAdmin` and install it. When you already installed it or already have it running, it'll prompt you to enter a master password. After that is done, you can now press `Add New Server` and fill in `Connection`.

    Although it says you can type in your host name, you're better off typing in the ip address that is associated to localhost in `hosts`. Personally, I had trouble connecting when I use localhost as my host name. You may want to allow TCP / UDP connections for the default port 5432 with your firewall.

5. Check to see if your server has been added under Servers on the left side.

Msc.
If `code` doesn't work for bash or zsh when you're using another terminal other than Ubuntu's, add an alias to .bashrc/.zshrc:
`alias code="/mnt/c/Program\ Files/Microsoft\ VS\ Code/Code.exe"`

## When it says I don't have permissions,
```
sudo umount /mnt/d
sudo mount -t drvfs D: /mnt/d -o metadata
```

## If you get password authentication failure, try messing with the pg_hba.conf

This what I did when I entered the error. May be insecure.

```
# "local" is for Unix domain socket connections only
local   all             all                                     peer
# IPv4 local connections:
host    all             all             127.0.0.1/32            trust
# IPv6 local connections:
host    all             all             ::1/128                 md5
# Allow replication connections from localhost, by a user with the
# replication privilege.
local   replication     all                                     peer
host    replication     all             127.0.0.1/32            md5
host    replication     all             ::1/128                 md5
```

## References

[https://github.com/michaeltreat/Windows-Subsystem-For-Linux-Setup-Guide](https://github.com/michaeltreat/Windows-Subsystem-For-Linux-Setup-Guide)

# WSL stuff

If you have .envrc and commands are not found, do

`sudo apt-get install dos2unix`

Then,

`dos2unix .envrc`


# Notes

https://x410.dev/cookbook/wsl/using-x410-with-wsl2/
